So we saw that we can use the present tense to refer to the future.
For example, if we have some future context.
We can just use the present tense by itself.
So we could say I am having breakfast.
with them tomorrow.
Now in Spanish you don't say with them, you say with they.
With they.
So how would that be first?
Con ellos.
Good.
And to have breakfast we said was to unfast.
Like in English breakfast, break, fast.
So I'm having breakfast with them tomorrow.
Desayuno con ellos manana.
And if we don't have a future context, like manana or any other context that's showing us is the future, we can also use I am going.
to speak about the future.
So you can say I am going to have breakfast with them.
How is that?
Voy a desayunar con ellos.
Good.
And if we had the future context, it doesn't mean we have to say desayuno con ellos mañana.
We could also say boy a desayunar con ellos mañana.
The fact that we have future context doesn't mean we can't use boy anymore.
So we've seen in that way we can use the present to talk about the future.
But this doesn't mean that we don't have a future tense in Spanish.
We do.
Luckily, we don't have to learn any new sounds
To master the future tense in Spanish.
The future tense in Spanish is connected with the past tense that we learn of haber.
This past of I have had breakfast or I have eaten, I have gone.
So let's make a recap of the forms of Aber.
Now it's very irregular and we said that a nice trick to remember the different forms of aber is just looking at the two vowel sounds inside the verb aber.
So what are those two vowel sounds?
A and E.
Good.
Let's start with E.
What does E mean by itself?
I have.
Good.
I have spelled H E.
And what other person is connected with I?
What's the plural of I, let's say?
EMOS.
Good.
We.
So we have A for I have and EMOS for we have.
What is a by itself?
H A.
He sh he she it or you formal.
Good.
So give me the other two versions now
An.
Good.
They or you guys.
Or you, yeah.
And us, which is you informal.
Good.
So that's our set.
Let's practice a little bit some structures with Aber just to recap.
So what was to sleep?
Torment.
Dormir.
Good.
So how would you say I have slept?
Begin with I have.
Eh.
Dormido.
Good.
We have slept.
He has slept.
A dormido.
Good.
How would you say to recommend?
Recommendacion.
Recommendar.
Good.
So how would you say they have recommended it?
They have recommended it.
And I remind you that with these structures with Aber, the it has to come before Aber.
There's no option of where to put it.
So they have recommended it
Lo han recomendado.
Lo an recomendado.
Good.
So these forms that we have
These forms of aber that we have, e-emos, a-as, an, are also the endings that we have for the future tense.
So like I said, we will learn the future tense now without having to learn any new sounds.
Now the interesting thing about the future tense.
is that we take the verb in its two form, whether it's an R verb, er verb or ear verb, doesn't matter, and we put the ending at the end of the two form and we stress the ending.
We are effectively pushing
the accent into the future.
For example, we have comer, and what was I have from Aber?
Eh.
So that's the sound without the H, just the sound.
That's the sound that we need for future for I.
We add that on to comer and we get komere.
And that's I will eat.
Now we are
Pushing the accent into the future, which might just seem like a coincidence, but you can notice that it happens in other languages as well, this phenomenon.
For example, in Greek, part of the past tense
is to pull the accent back, one syllable, to pull the accent back into the past.
And actually this is so important in Greek that if there is not a syllable there to do it, you add one to pull the accent back.
into the past.
So this is a phenomenon that you see in in different languages, the accents representing somehow or reflecting somehow the concept of time and tenses.
So here we are pushing the accent into the future, komere.
I will eat.
You can give me the rest of the versions for the future of comer.
Comeremos.
Good.
We will eat.
Comera.
Good.
He will eat.
Comeras.
You in fumel will eat.
Comeran.
Good.
They or you guys relate.
What was to go?
We said it was very irregular.
We have boy and bamos and ba, but the verb to go doesn't look anything like them.
ER.
Ear.
Ear in the future is regular.
So we can follow these rules and get the future tenses of to go.
I will go, he will go.
So what is I will go?
Ire and we will go iremos iremos he will go ira they or you guys
Iran.
Like the country.
They will go to Iran.
Iran a Iran.
Good.
You in Fumul will go
Hira.
Good.
And what if we wanted to make it a question?
Will you go?
Iraz?
Good.
Won't you go?
Why won't you go?
Good.
What was to find or to encounter?
I will find
Encontrare.
Good.
I will find it.
Lo encontrare.
Good.
We will find it.
Los encontraré.
That was an interesting era.
Because I said we, so I made I plural with we and your mind made the it plural, huh?
Yeah.
We will find it.
Lo encontraremos.
Good.
He or she or you fummel will find it.
Lo encontrara.
Good.
He will find them or she will find them or you fumel will find them.
Los encontrarán.
So you made both of them them or they.
You said them.
But we said he will find them or she will find them.
Los
Encontrará.
Good.
Los encontrará.
So we want to think about the two things separately, huh?
The who is doing the verb and who are they doing it to?
Who or what are they doing it to
We said that kedar means to remain, kedar, and to get the meaning of I stay, we say I remain myself.
How was that?
I remain myself
Mekedo.
Good.
How would you say I will stay then?
I will remain myself.
Good, but quedare means I will remain.
And if you want the meaning of stay, you must must use me.
Yeah.
Me quedare.
I will remain myself or I will stay.
I will stay here.
Me quedare aquí.
Good.
What was to prepare?
Preparar.
Good.
And I will prepare
Preparare.
Good.
So it's very important to think out the whole verb preparare.
And then add on the e preparare.
Because a very common mistake that that learners make is to say bre pare and they miss out the last R because they don't think out the whole verb first.
So we must think out the whole verb first, preparar, and then add on the ending.
Preparare.
What was to wait or to hope?
Esperar.
I will wait
Esperare.
Good.
What was to organize?
Organizar.
Good.
He will organize
Organisara.
Good.
Organizará.
So the useful thing about the accent being on descending is that we don't have to worry about where the accent goes when we're pronouncing the whole verb.
Organisara on the end.
Organisara.
They were organized.
Organisaran.
Good.
What was tired?
Cansado.
Good.
So how would you say I will be tired?
I will be tired.
Sere a estaré cansada.
Good
How would it will be be from ser?
It will be using ser.
Serra.
Good.
It sound familiar from anywhere?
Serra.
Yes.
So very simple the future tense.
Doesn't matter if we have ar, er or ear verb, we are adding on these endings and these endings are the same as the different versions of aberr.
So if we forget them we can look back.
Tu haber and then we just had that on the end.
But in saying that the future tense is not so often used in Spanish
Most of the time you will find yourself using present or boy a bamos a but the future tense does exist and now you know it